April dev-update (#60)
comit-network/comit.network: blog/2020-05-01-april-dev-update.md

---
title:  "April, 2020 - Dev Update"
author: daniel
author_url: https://github.com/da-kami
author_image_url: https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/5557790
tags: [dev-update]
---

> It’s difficult to make predictions, especially about the future.
>
> Niels Bohr

> Are we at the verge of plummeting into the biggest recession since the big crash of 1929? 

Reviewer: :wrench: 

```suggestion
Are we on the verge of plummeting into the biggest recession since the big crash of 1929? 
```

> And if so, are cryptocurrencies the answer, a safe-haven to put your money in?

Reviewer: :wrench: 

```suggestion
And if so, are cryptocurrencies the answer, a safe haven to put your money in?
```

> While we cannot look into the future and don't dare to predict it, we are inclined to believe that it is *likely* to see a high demand for crypto in the future, and an even higher one in the next few months. 

Reviewer: :wrench: 
```suggestion
While we cannot look into the future and don't dare to predict it, we are inclined to believe that we are *likely* to see a high demand for crypto in the future, and an even higher one in the next few months. 
```

> Time to get COMIT out there so you don't have to trust those central exchanges, but keep your private keys where they should be: to yourself.

Reviewer: :upside_down_face: 
```suggestion
Time to get COMIT out there so you don't have to trust those central exchanges, but keep your private keys where they should be: in your wallet.
```

Verify, don't trust!

Join us for a discussion around advances in crypto, trustless trading and - as usual - various tech related topics in [next week Thursday's COMIT Community ☕️](https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=NHEzb2tkNDJtcXFzdnNyNG9oM2UzNGhpc3MgdGVueC50ZWNoX202dWp2OXQ4cGluajAxYmI2NXV0aHRmcnM0QGc&tmsrc=tenx.tech_m6ujv9t8pinj01bb65uthtfrs4%40group.calendar.google.com) - 7pm Sydney time!

<!--truncate-->

> It would be an under-statement to say that the COMIT team is quite tech-focused.

Reviewer: :upside_down_face: 

```suggestion
It would be an understatement to say that the COMIT team is quite tech-focused.
```

We breath tech, usually focusing on discussions around protocol implementations rather than philosophising about the global financial system.

> However, with the recent turmoil caused by Covid-19, we had a noticeable trend of discussing topics outside the tech sphere.

Reviewer: :upside_down_face: 
```suggestion
However, with the recent turmoil caused by COVID-19, we had a noticeable trend towards discussing topics outside the tech sphere.
```

While some plans, like filling up your bathtub with crude oil and getting paid for it, were fun but not the most practical, other questions, like should I invest now? - and if yes into what? - were interesting to the team.
And we don't seem to be the only ones.

> We are used to cryptocurrencies being a volatile market - but recently the traditional stock market went up and down even crazier.

Reviewer: :upside_down_face: 

```suggestion
We are used to the cryptocurrency market being volatile - but recently the traditional stock market has been even less predicatable.
```

Making quick money might, however, be a shallow tactic, given that we might just be at the start of the biggest bear market to date.

> By looking at [statistic of previous historical crashes](https://todaytrader.com/blog/stock-market-crash-preparation/) it becomes clear that we might not have reached the bottom yet, and the time to break-even can be in the decades.

Reviewer: :wrench:
```suggestion
By looking at [statistics of previous historical crashes](https://todaytrader.com/blog/stock-market-crash-preparation/) it becomes clear that we might not have reached the bottom yet, and the time to break-even could be decades away.
```

> We love statistics, but as the quote of this post says - predicting the future is a bet.

Reviewer: :wrench: 
```suggestion
We love statistics, but as the quote at the top of this post says - predicting the future is a bet.
```

> It can be an educated bet, but it is still a bet.

Reviewer: :upside_down_face: 
```suggestion
It can be an educated bet, but nonetheless a bet.
```

> In the end it's up to each individual to come to a conclusion on how to handle this crisis.

Reviewer: :thinking: To separate it from the medical crisis.
```suggestion
In the end it's up to each individual to come to a conclusion on how to handle this financial crisis.
```

Reviewer: Actually, I would choose to omit this sentence, given that a lot of people won't have a choice on how to handle that one either.

Let's end this excursion with a second quote I really like: 

> 49% losses, 51% wins, and lived well from the difference.
>
> André Kostolany

Back to the tech - let's have a look on what happened in COMIT last month!

> With the begin of the new quarter we started tackling new challenges while still finishing some issues from the previous quarter.

Reviewer: :wrench: 
```suggestion
With the beginning of the new quarter we started tackling new challenges while still finishing some issues from the previous quarter.
```

> In the first week of April the Lightning squad - Thomas, Franck and Tobin - [successfully integrated Lightning-ERC20 swaps](https://github.com/comit-network/comit-rs/pull/2426) into cnd.

Reviewer 2: Afaik this was HanETH-HaLight
```suggestion
In the first week of April the Lightning squad - Thomas, Franck and Tobin - [successfully integrated Ether-Lighting swaps](https://github.com/comit-network/comit-rs/pull/2426) into cnd.
```

Author: oh, good catch, it's Ether - what was I thinking :D

With this milestone reached, Lightning is basically integrated into COMIT, leaving some improvements to be worked on.
Together with the [step](https://github.com/comit-network/comit-rs/pull/2283)-by-[step](https://github.com/comit-network/comit-rs/pull/2383/files) integration of the [new communication protocols](https://github.com/comit-network/spikes/blob/master/0023-communication-protocol.adoc) we steadily improve the Lightning integration in the core.

> One interesting piece of code to mention is Rishab's implementation of the [libp2p integration tests](https://github.com/comit-network/comit-rs/pull/2479), that allows us to integration test the newly added [`NetworkBehaviour`s](https://docs.rs/libp2p/0.12.0/libp2p/swarm/trait.NetworkBehaviour.html) independent of our end-to-end tests.

Reviewer: :upside_down_face: 
 ```suggestion
Another interesting piece of code to mention is Rishab's implementation of the [libp2p integration tests](https://github.com/comit-network/comit-rs/pull/2479), that allows us to integration-test the newly added [`NetworkBehaviour`s](https://docs.rs/libp2p/0.12.0/libp2p/swarm/trait.NetworkBehaviour.html) independent of our end-to-end tests.
```

> By the second week of April Thomas and Lucas joined forces with our ex-colleague Lloyd to implement a Bitcoin [PoC of A2L](https://github.com/comit-network/a2l-poc).

Reviewer: :wrench: 
```suggestion
By the second week of April Thomas and Lucas had joined forces with our ex-colleague Lloyd to implement a Bitcoin [PoC of A2L](https://github.com/comit-network/a2l-poc).
```

A2L is a payment-channel hub protocol which achieves atomicity and unlinkability between the channel updates by leveraging adaptor signatures and a homomorphic encryption scheme.
The [paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/589.pdf) defines a protocol construction using 2-party ECDSA (and other signature schemes), but our implementation instead takes the more pragmatic route of using 2-of-2 multisigs, like we did in the Bitcoin-Grin swap PoC.
By the end of April some work remains to be done in terms of benchmarking and improving code quality, but the end-to-end test pass!

> When it comes to the COMIT community the most noticeable change is the [new front-page of our homepage](https://comit.network/).

Reviewer: :wrench: I guess that's what you meant.
```suggestion
When it comes to the COMIT community the most noticeable change is the [new front-page of our website](https://comit.network/).
```

COMIT is an open protocol - we strongly encourage anybody out there to use it for building products that enable the trustless exchange of digital assets.

> To make it easier to find you way into coding with COMIT we added [a detailed "write your fist COMIT-app" tutorial](https://comit.network/docs/tutorials/write-your-first-comit-app/write-a-comit-app-setup) for using the [comit-js-sdk](https://github.com/comit-network/comit-js-sdk/) to integrate atomic swaps into your application.

Reviewer: :wrench: 
```suggestion
To make it easier to find your way into coding with COMIT we added [a detailed "write your first COMIT-app" tutorial](https://comit.network/docs/tutorials/write-your-first-comit-app/write-a-comit-app-setup) for using the [comit-js-sdk](https://github.com/comit-network/comit-js-sdk/) to integrate atomic swaps into your application.
```
